In this video I want to talk about object oriented programming basics.
The building blocks of it and its main features since we will be using them in each section.
All words and I wouldn't want you to be confused about any of them.
This will be more of a high level video to put things into perspective so we'll be using diagrams in
charge to grasp the big idea and in the next videos we'll be diving into specifics and showing them
in real code examples as you can see here we have a representation of an object and all object oriented
programming is is a collection of collaborating objects.
Each object is an autonomous concept that interacts with another concept the way you build object is
by creating a blueprint to where we have it here for them and then using that blueprint to instantiate
them.
So what you see here is a blueprint.
You have a constructor method field and a property constructor just allows you to specify anything that
an object needs to be created.
It doesn't have to have a constructor but it's an option.
Methods are just behaviors of an object that performs some type of function on the values passed in
from the constructor or other values.
Bottom line is methods are behaviors on an object that's all fields known as Private Members of a class.
They don't have to be but best practices to keep them private.
We'll talk more about private public protected which are access specifies and the encapsulation video.
So don't worry about it.
Fields are set when you pass values into the constructor.
Properties are a way to expose any fields you choose to.
You can also set fields directly in the constructor as well.
But the best practice once again is to set fields in the constructor and then use properties to expose
field values back to the example.
Here we have a constructor method field and a property.
You don't have to have any of these things mentioned you can just have an empty object without any of
this.
But what's the point.
Usually you have some type of combination of these things mentioned or all of it at once just the way
we have it.
In this example.
So here once again we have the blueprint but we can't do anything with the blueprint.
We need to use the new reserved keyword in order to perform instantiation which is the process of creating
an instance of a class.
What's the instance of a created.
We call them objects right here.
So we have the blueprint and then we use the new reserved keyword to perform instantiation which then
creates our objects and we can have as many as we want.
So these are the different objects that we have been instantiating from the same class.
Everything will be the same except what has been specified in the constructor during instantiation.
So one of them might have aged 70.
Another might have aged twenty five because they're different objects that have been instantiated separately
and that's if we are setting the field age in the constructor.
So that's my assumption that we're doing this.
In this example once we have the objects we can do some interesting stuff with them Object Oriented
Programming has four main features which we can use on our objects.
And this is where the power of object or any programming comes in.
We have inheritance polymorphism encapsulation and abstraction.
Now let's jump into the next couple of sections and start talking about specifics and how each of these
features works.
First one in line is inheritance.
So I will see you in the next video we will be defining the inheritance.
Just giving you a down to earth definition nothing complex and then start exploring it in code.